[AUDIO LOGO]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Is there a date for
the end of the world?
In studying Mayan
prophecies, many believe so.
But the interpretation
turned out to be wrong.
Ten years after
the mythical 2012,
let's analyze together
the misunderstood message
of this fabulous civilization.
I'm Ricardo Gonzalez Corpancho.
Welcome aboard
"The Arc of Time."
[THEME MUSIC]
As we saw in the
previous episode,
according to Hopi
leader White Bear,
the kachinas, their gods
from the Pleiades stars,
rescued the survivors of
the submerged Kasskara
to take them to America.
One of those places, like I
mentioned, was Mount Shasta.
But White Bear also
talked about other places,
like the mythical
Palenque in Chiapas.
We're talking about one of
the most important scenarios
of the Mayan culture, where
the Temple of the Inscriptions
is found, and the
mysterious tomb
lid of King Pakal
Votan, which inspired
the imagination of the theorists
of the ancient astronauts--
researchers, such as, for
example, Soviet scientist
and writer Alexander Kazantsev.
It has been interpreted
that the Mayan priest was
aboard some type of
rocket or flying vehicle
and that Pakal's hands
seem to operate levers.
As we see in the image, his
feet, in dynamic motion,
also seem to be stepping
on some kind of pedals.
His head is also visibly
resting on a support.
And next to his
nose, you can see
some kind of breathing device.
Pakal's gaze is looking at what
would be the bow of the ship.
And at the bottom
of the mask, there
appears to be a plume of flames
coming out, which corresponds
to the propulsion of a rocket.
Irrefutable evidence, or
pareidolia, as the skeptics
call it?
The official version
of the archaeologists
is that the stone
shows the ascension
of Pakal Votan from the
underworld into the sky.
The truth is that, to this
day, the debate continues.
Is it possible that the Maya had
contact with extraterrestrials?
Could they be, by
chance, descendants
of lost cultures dating
from antediluvian times?
If so, theorists of
ancient astronauts
think that legacy could explain
this culture's obsession
with time and prophecies.
And there is no
doubt that the Maya
were one of the most
important civilizations
of the ancient world.
According to official
history, this culture
emerged in Mesoamerica
around the year 25,000 BC.
But a good number
of scholars suspect
that the roots of
this civilization
could be dated back
thousands of years.
In fact, the Maya
inherited the foundation
for their system of calendars
from those ancient cultures.
We are talking about a
complex time measurement
system in which a solar
calendar called Haab stands out,
a 365-day civil calendar,
and a mystical lunar
ceremonial calendar called
Tzolkin, with 260 days,
and the so-called Long Count,
a much broader calendar, which
extends over a period
of thousands of years.
This Long Count was
begun mythically
around the year 3113 BC.
And it corresponds to a
period of 5,125 years composed
of 13 baktuns.
Each of these baktuns
contains 144,000 days.
These 13 baktuns that are
to have started, as I said,
in 3113 BC, would culminate
sometime on the 21st or 22nd
of December of the year 2012.
And this led to multiple
interpretations.
On one hand, the diehard
doomsayers and catastrophists
thought that the Maya had
prophesied the end of the world
since our planet, according
to old native traditions,
had gone through different
cycles of destruction,
either by fire or by water,
as the Hopi Indians believed,
or as it is also apparently
immersed in Mayan beliefs.
However, at no time
did the Maya talk
about there being
an end of the world
when their Long Count finished.
Others interpreted it
quite differently--
that from the year 2012, a
gradual path of transformation
for humanity would begin,
historically, spiritually,
which would generate
a great mutation,
not just for our species,
but all over the planet.
But within that
interpretation, some mystics
were convinced that
as of December 21,
the Earth would
make a giant leap--
the ascension to a higher
dimension of consciousness,
being that, the reconnection
with the previously discussed
real universe time,
the fourth dimension,
or real time of the cosmos.
Or some even spoke
of a fifth dimension,
of a frequency of the fifth
stage, or the fifth scenario,
as also referenced in
some channeled text.
But by all accounts,
none of that happened.
Nor did the catastrophe
that many had interpreted,
which, of course, was
depicted in television series,
as well as catastrophic
films like "2012."
Nor was there a great
dimensional leap
of humanity to the fourth
or the fifth dimension.
So both the catastrophists
and the diehard mystics
were completely disappointed.
But the thing is, the Maya
never talked about it.
They simply had a
system of time to mark
the end of one historical cycle
and the beginning of another.
In my opinion, according
to our contact experiences,
of course we are moving
towards higher spheres
of consciousness.
But that path is gradual.
The path is step by step.
And we still have
to continue going
through learning experiences.
I would ask our audience
who is watching right now,
do you think that we are
already in the fourth and fifth
dimensions?
Do you think that we have
already overcome our problems?
Do you think that our humanity
is already in that frequency,
vibrating in another
time-space reality?
I don't think so.
But we could achieve
it if we correctly
understand the messages
and we do not distort them.
One detail that caught my
attention in a powerful way
within the numeric message
of the Long Count of the Maya
is the number 144,000.
As I said, every baktun
contains 144,000 days.
And that has been interpreted,
in a mystical way,
that this number comprises
the critical mass needed
to transform future events--
a number, as I have mentioned
on other occasions, which
also appears in the Bible
in John's vision of the Isle
of Patmos, the apocalypse.
This led to a channel
calling herself Antara Amara
to promote a great
gathering of many people
in different parts of the
world to gather the 144,000 who
would vibrate in this frequency
based on the Maya prophecies.
One of the big gatherings,
the starting point,
was the harmonic convergence
in the year 1987,
which brought together different
consciousness and New Age
groups.
That was the beginning of the
meetings of the 11:11 portals.
According to Antara Amara's
channeling and initiatives,
they had to bring
many people together
in the world in
places of contact
and places of power in states
of awareness and meditation
to elevate the
frequency of the Earth.
And they celebrated the
first 11:11 portal in Egypt
in the year 1992.
Since then, these New
Age 11:11 ceremonies
have been practiced to this
day, although I must also
say that all this
has been distorted.
Some believe that,
because of the simple fact
that, on Gregorian calendars,
numbers add up to 11
or the date contains
that number,
an interdimensional
portal is going to open.
And that is just not so.
It's true that numbers have a
great vibration, a great power.
And they can amplify
our power of intention.
But to say that because
a determined number
on a calendar as inaccurate as
the Gregorian calendar alluding
to the figure 11 is a guarantee
that a dimensional portal will
open--
that is a belief that has
very little foundation.
Of course, it is wonderful
that different spiritual groups
in the world meet
in places of power,
meditating and thinking
about a better world.
We must support that.
And it's fantastic.
But you have to remember
how these meetings began,
which are based on the
harmonic convergence
in the Mayan prophecies and
in the cycle of calendars
that are so misunderstood.
Other information related
to the mystery of the Maya
relates to our sun and its
activity with the Earth.
While it is true that the
Maya did not refer exactly
to the mass coronal
ejections of the sun,
apparently, they
did have knowledge
that everything that
occurs on the sun
could affect the
balance of the Earth.
At least, that tradition
and that belief
is held by many ethnic
Mayan peoples to this day.
And it also reminds
me of the belief
of the Hamawt'as, of the
wise masters of the Andes.
Just like their
ancestors, the Incas,
they believe that everything
that happens with the sun
can affect the Earth.
That's how a mystical
interpretation
of Mayan prophecies came
about, claiming that Hunab
Ku, mentioned in
Mayan tradition,
in the beliefs of this culture--
it is nothing more nor less
than the supermassive black hole
that is found at the
center of our galaxy,
and that it would have some
effect through a synchronizing
beam.
Interpreted as such, the
Maya didn't say that exactly.
But it was interpreted like
that through modern channeling,
which they attempted to
combine with this knowledge.
And that synchronizing
beam would reach our sun,
affect our sun.
And from our sun,
extraordinary things
would happen in the solar
system and especially on Earth.
It is curious that in the year
2012, the year of the Maya,
the year of the end
of the Long Count,
there was unusual
activity on the sun, which
appears to have had some effect
on the Earth's magnetosphere.
But it must also be noted
that these phenomena have
been repeated
throughout recent years.
Scientists officially think that
climate change and everything
that is happening on our planet
has no connection with the sun.
However, other scholars,
like scientist Paul LaVallee,
think otherwise.
He's convinced that
activity on the sun
has a very important connection
not only with the Earth's
climate, but also with the
behavior of human beings,
something that I will
discuss in greater
detail in the next episode.
In any event, the Maya
intended to represent, perhaps,
certain cosmic phenomena
in their traditions,
in their myths, even in the
famous ballgame with the rubber
ball that they hit
with their elbows,
that they hit with their hips,
which could contain information
of cosmic characteristics,
which perhaps involve the sun,
the center of the galaxy,
and the cosmic evolution
of the Earth and
of human beings.
I think that this episode
has been important in order
to understand something.
First, in order to study the
cultures of the ancient world,
we have to be very careful to
separate our interpretations,
our esoteric and mystic visions,
and contact from existing
tradition, folklore,
archaeology, and history.
That happened with the Maya.
And that's why many scholars
quoted them with things
that they never
said, interpreting
the end of the world or a
jump into a higher dimension.
However, it is
important to combine
those legends and
that information
and those numeric calendars with
what you could be developing
in genuine contact experiences.
The intent of this
episode is so that you
can see it in this
perspective and understand
that, in 2012, nothing ended.
We haven't achieved
anything yet.
We have simply
started a new cycle.
And that cycle lasts
a very long time.
But now we are laying the
foundation for that building.
That is the main
message of this episode,
knowing that we should
keep moving forward,
that the process is
still not finished.
In addition to all this,
there are some interpretations
of the Maya codices, those
that survived the unfortunate
burning by Diego de Landa
during the Spanish conquest.
One of these
interpretations speaks
of the encounter with
the lords of the stars
in the codex of
eclipses, one of which
was accurately indicated by
them in 1991, visible in Mexico
City.
The eclipse occurred.
And during that celestial
event, several UFO sightings
were recorded, Unidentified
Flying Objects.
And many researchers, like
my friend Jaime Maussan,
wondered at that time
if those objects--
if those lights that were
being video recorded in Mexico
had something to do
with Mayan codices
or with the alleged
prophecy that
spoke of the return of
the lords of the stars.
That's why some
traditions talk about how
the secret Mayan masters arrived
on Earth through a hollow reed
or serpent's tail from
Pleiades, as if it
were a wormhole for an
interdimensional journey,
bringing beings
from other worlds.
Many wonder if the pyramids
of Mexico and its cultures
and everything that has
been developed there
is of extraterrestrial origin.
In my opinion, no.
All this was done
by human beings--
wonderful information that
generated from living on Earth,
which could have
been influenced by
or which may have had
some kind of connection
with visits from
beings of other worlds,
or even with survivors
of those lost
kingdoms, which I have
already referenced
in "The Arc of Time."
Do Mexico's UFOs from
1991 represent the return
of the lords of the stars?
And did they have
some kind of contact
with our ancestors in America?
In addition to the
Long Count of the Maya
and the cycles of
time, which involve
the beginning of a 14th
baktun, symbolically, since,
for some specialists,
the Long Count
repeats itself,
those 5,125 years.
And for others, when
the 13th baktun ends,
baktun number 14 begins.
That is to say,
right now, humanity
would be going through its
144,000 days of transformation,
which is a cycle equivalent
to 400 years, which I'm going
to refer to in a few moments.
But apart from all that,
there is another prophecy
circulating in Mexico,
a prophecy that
has been transmitted through
the oral tradition, which
speaks of the return--
the Mayan superior council.
In the Popol Vuh, it is
said that human beings were
originally created by a
council of 13 masters, created
from corn.
And oral traditions assert this
council of 13 cosmic masters,
or whoever they
are, will resurface
at the end of the time at the
peak time of human learning.
And these 13 great
cosmic consciousnesses
would be embodied or would
materialize in crystal skulls,
like the famous
crystal skull that
was found by explorer
Mitchell-Hedges in Lubaantun,
Belize.
It is one of the Mayan
skulls that are circulating
throughout the world.
And it is believed that the
Maya did not create them,
but they had guarded
them, since it
would have been very
difficult for them
to have been able to
polish a piece of quartz
with such perfection.
Obviously, there are many
fraudulent crystal skulls
that may be found on the
black market in Mexico.
But here, I'm talking
about 13 authentic skulls
that are hidden not exactly in
Mexico, but in different parts
of the world.
You may recall one of
the sequels of the movie
"Indiana Jones," which was
inspired by this legend.
The explorer, an
archaeologist, in the end
meets the 13 gods, or the
13 creators of humanity,
through the crystal skulls.
And these 13 gods, according
to the "Indiana Jones" movie,
were extraterrestrials.
Is this what the
Popol Vuh is trying
to tell us-- that
life on Earth was sown
by beings from other worlds?
No.
Allow me to return to
that 14th baktun cycle.
When I've had the
opportunity to meet
with these
extraterrestrial beings,
and we asked them, how long
does humanity need to generate
the final change, we
were told, the change
is gradual and
must be sustained.
It is assured that you
are going to achieve it.
But this will not
prevent you from going
through different learning
trials, some very painful,
so that, in the
end, you can rise up
as a cosmic civilization
and integrate with us.
That process is going
to take 400 years.
How curious.
144,000 days is
equivalent to 400 years.
And the 14th baktun reminds
me of a very important
esoteric number, which
may be a coincidence.
But I think, at this point,
nothing is by chance.
The number 14 represents
the return of the cycles.
It represents the return
of the great masters.
For example, in
Peru, it is believed
that the 14th Inca, the one who
is hidden in Paititi, Inkarri,
will return after
500 years of darkness
to restore the
Pachacuti of light.
And if this were not
enough, in the Bible,
it says that, from Abraham
to David, from David
to the exile from Babylon, and
from the exile from Babylon
to the birth of Christ,
14 generations go by,
like the 14 steps
that Jesus of Nazareth
would have followed on the
way to later die on the cross
and then resurrect, a
subject that we will
explore in an upcoming episode.
These very interesting
cycles that
take us to the 14th baktun
number and 144,000 days
seem to encompass
a pivotal message.
We are living in the definitive
times for transformation,
those envisioned
by great mediums,
like those mentioned before,
Parravicini, Edgar Cayce,
or Nostradamus himself.
According to
Antarel, of these 400
years, which started
in 2012, the first 13
are very important--
that number 13 that the
Maya also considered
to be a sacred cycle.
A great master
and 12 disciples--
the magical priesthood--
that is, from 2012 to 2025,
we are laying the foundation
of that great transformation.
And we'll see what
is going to happen
to the Earth in the
times that follow.
I have disseminated this
information since before 2012.
And I see that it has
had significant influence
on many contact witnesses
and researchers.
And I continue to be
convinced of this information.
I believe in what has been said
by this being who calls himself
Antarel, as well as in many
numeric and symbolic messages
of the Maya.
We are living the 144,000
days, the 14th baktun,
the opportunity to
change the future.
The question is, how could the
Maya and their predecessors,
the Olmecs, and other
cultures decode all this
in the magic of numbers,
in the magic of mathematics
and calendars?
Maybe because it's a perception
of the lines of time,
of the infinite possibilities.
Is it possible that,
in those numbers,
in that geometry
of the universe,
is found the hidden evolution
of creatures and their learning
experiences?
I am convinced that ancient
human civilizations cherished
that knowledge.
And if there really
is a connection
between extraterrestrial
messages
and the calendars of
Mesoamerican cultures, in 2012,
that 13th baktun ended, a
transition of great changes
imposed by the conquest
of many Native peoples.
And from this beginning
of the 14th baktun,
we would gradually
need to rise above,
leaving behind a
darkness and pain.
And after facing
those difficult times,
our humanity would resurface,
like that cosmic civilization
that I've talked about so much.
Extraterrestrials point out
that this process will take us
some time, but we
can achieve it.
When does the 14th baktun end?
It concludes, according to this
information, on March 25, 2407.
On that date, will we
still be on the planet?
Or will we be in the first
colonies on Alpha Centauri?
In the next episode, we
will continue our search,
and we will delve into the
mysterious solar disks.
I'm Ricardo Gonzalez Corpancho.
And you are aboard
"The Arc of Time."
[THEME MUSIC]